Just to recap what we
have been working on,
we've been working through
a quiz webpage that
is going to ultimately be
a little bit of a test for
someone to see their JavaScript knowledge,
put it to the test.
We're gonna have some kind of statement,
a couple of options true or false answers.
When someone clicks on one of the answers,
we're going to show them whether they were
correct or incorrect with some colors.
We're gonna show them what
the explanation behind this statement or
this fact about JavaScript is.
And so this is our end goal,
we're working towards building
this interactive quiz game.
And earlier, we had been working on
a version locally ourselves in our text
editors and we've gotten pretty far.
We've gotten to write several
functions that we're gonna need,
we've gotten to manipulate the page
a little bit, insert our own fact in it.
But we still need to do some work to
make this an interactive quiz and
give the user that feedback
about what the real answer is.
So that is what we're
gonna pick up with now.
And in order to do that, we're gonna
have to talk about events in JavaScript,
because events are how we can
make our webpages interactive.
And right now, our page, it's kind of
like MC Hammer said, we can't touch it.
Well, we can, we can try clicking on
buttons and things on our page, but
nothing is really happening when we do.
What we want is for the action that
I take when I click something,
we want that to do stuff, we want that
to make things happen on our page.
So what we want to do is we
want to handle any events,
any interactive actions
that the user might take.
Or any things that might be happening
here that we can then take them and
run with to change our page as we see fit.
So this is what we need to do.
And the web browser is
really set up to do this.
So again, keeping in mind that JavaScript
was created as a scripting language inside
of the browser, JavaScript and
the browser, they kind of go hand in hand.
And the way it works is that, when the
user does something like click a button,
the web browser fires an event.
So browsers have this concept of events,
there are all kinds of different events,
but click is a really great example.
So I click the button,
the browser fires or
sends off an event that says,
hey, a click happened.
And what we need to do in our
JavaScript is we need to handle it.
So that is how we're going to be
able to react to things that happen,
is we're going to listen for any events
that the browser might be firing and
then we're going to handle them.
And how we do that is what
we're gonna talk about now.
So there is a method
on elements in our DOM
that is called addEventListener.
[COUGH] And what this does is it
let's say attach what's called
an EventListener to a particular
event that the browser might fire.
If that event had something to do with
whatever element we are interested in
listening for changes to or
listening for events on.
So for example, if I add an event
listener to the entire document,
what I'm gonna say here, I'm gonna pass in
two things to the addEventListener method.
The first thing is the name of the event
that I care about, in this case click.
And the second thing, what is that?
That second thing after the comma
here in the parameter, so
the argument that I'm passing into
this method, what do we notice?
We learned what that
weird symbol is earlier.
>> An arrow.
>> It's a fat arrow which?
>> Function.
>> It creates a function, exactly.
So we have an arrow function because we
don't need to really name this function,
but this function, what it is?
So it's called a callback and
some in some resources, you'll find it.
We also call it an event handler function.
And what it does is JavaScript
is gonna take that function and
then anytime it fires a click event on
whatever element we've attached to,
in this case, the entire document.
Is going to call that function and
run whatever code that
function tells it to run.
So in this case,
it's gonna run console.log clicked.
So let's try it out.
If I go into my, this is just my other
version of this page that we've made.
If I add this event listener now,
when I click anywhere on the page.
Do you see how that little 4, 5,
6 it's showing me that all of these
different click events have happened.
And it's it's just kind of
keeping them together and
incrementing this number here instead of
like logging, logging, logging, logging,
just to save me some eyeball strain.
[LAUGH] So this is this is showing
that now by calling that dot
add event listener method now
I am getting information.
I'm getting basically the option to
run my function that I declared and
I decided what to write in,
what code to put in.
That is running every time somebody
clicks anywhere on the document.
Cool, pretty cool, I think so, yes.
So just to review,
we have to pass into things.
And if you're like me, sometimes it's
hard to remember what we have to pass in.
So again,
you can always check on MDN if you're not
sure what parameters this method takes.
The name of the event click is one
that's gonna come up a lot and
then the handler function that JavaScript
is gonna call whenever that event happens.